Hello and welcome
to this almost final tutorial of data pre-processing.
I look forward to being well prepared
with our data to start making our machine learning models.
It's gonna be very fun.
We just have to hold one for two more tutorials
and then we're good to go.
So, today we're gonna talk about feature scaling
which is very important in machine learning.
I'm going to explain you why right now.
Let's explain what is feature scaling
and why we need to do it.
As you can see, we have these two columns, Age and Salary
that contains numerical numbers.
You notice that the variables
are not on the same scale
because the age are going from 27 to 50
and the salary's going from 40 K to like 90 K.
So, because this Age variable and the Salary variable
don't have the same scale,
this will cause some issues
in your machine learning models and why is that?
It's because your machine learning models,
a lot of machine learning models
are based on what is called the Euclidean Distance.
If you remember that back from high school,
the Euclidean Distance between two data points,
between two points is the square root
of the sum of the squared coordinates.
Well, actually here it's the same.
We have two variables, Age and Salary,
so you can picture Age as the x-coordinate
and the salary as the y-coordinate
and in the machine learning model's equations,
some Euclidean Distances between observation points,
for example, this one and this one
are computed based on these two coordinates
and actually since the salary has a much wider range
of values, it's because it's going from zero to 100 K,
the Euclidean Distance will be dominated by the Salary,
because for example, if we take two observations,
for example, this one, the ninth one,
and the third one,
well, the Euclidean Distance will compute the difference
between this salary and this salary, so let's compute it.
That's about, so this minus this one.
As you can see, this is 31,000.
If you put that in square,
let's see, up square, that gives this.
And now let's take for the same two observations the ages.
So, let's compute.
Equals 48 minus, it was this one, right?
27, that's the difference
and now let's take the square
equals this square.
441.
So, you can see very clearly
how this square difference dominates this square difference
and that's because these two variables
are not on the same scale.
So, in the machine learning equations,
it will be like this doesn't exist
because it will be dominated by this,
so that's why we absolutely need to put the variables
in the same scale,
that is that we're gonna transform these two variables
and they're gonna have values in the same range,
for example, they're gonna have values
from minus one to plus one here
and same here, minus one to plus one
so that we don't get this sort of problem
with a huge number here dominating a smaller number here
so that eventually the sampler number doesn't exist.
There are several ways of scaling your data.
A very common one is the standardization
which means that for each observation
and each feature, you withdraw the mean value
of all the values of the feature
and you divide it by the standard deviation.
So, that's the first type of feature scaling
and another type is normalization
which means that you substract your observation feature x
by the minimum value of all the feature values
and you divide it by the difference
between the maximum of your feature values
and the minimum of your feature values.
Don't worry if you're not very comfortable
with the mathematics here
but what you need to understand
is that we are putting our variables in the same range,
in the same scale so that no variable
is dominated by the other.
So, let's do it right now.
Anyway, you're gonna see how the variables
are gonna be transformed.
You're gonna see how they go from having large
and very different values
to small and same values, so let's start right now.
So, as usual, we're gonna import a library to do this
and we know this library, we already saw it,
it's the preprocessing library
and from this library, we're going to import
the standard scalar class, so let's do it.
We're going to import sklearn.preprocessing,
so that's the preprocessing library
import StandardScalar,
so that's the class we need to import,
then as usual, we're going to create an object
of this class and we're going to call it sc for scale
_X because you will see later
that we might need to create another object
that will scale the dependent variable vector
but so far we will only need
to scale the x matrix of features.
So, sc_X and then here StandardScalar
which is a class and parenthesis
and now very simply we will directly fit and transform
our training set and our test set.
So, let's do this.
We're gonna transform X_train, so we will recompute X_train
because we want it to be scaled
and so, to do this, we're taking our object sc_X
and then we're calling the method fit and transform,
so that's very important to understand that.
When you are applying your object, StandardScalar object
to your training set,
you have to fit the object to the training set
and then transform it
and you're gonna see that it's not going
to be the same thing for the test set
because we will only transform the test set
but for the training set,
we need to fit it and then transform the training set.
So, here we will just need to add as an argument X_train
and that's it
and now same for the test set.
So we are going to copy this line,
paste it here and here test
and then X_test here as well
and now as I just said,
for the test set, we don't need to fit the sc_X object
to the test set
because it's already fitted to the training set,
so here I will remove fit
and we're good to go.
Now, there are two questions that we can ask ourselves.
The first one is really important
and you will find a lot of these questions on Google.
This question is do we need to fit
and transform the dummy variables?
Because as you can see,
dummy variables, let's change the format here for a second,
zero, as you can see, the dummy variables takes values
either zero or one,
so do we need to scale that
because it seems to be already scaled, right?
So, if you ask this question to Google,
you will find several answers.
You will find several teams for that.
Some will say that no, you don't need to scale
these dummy variables, some say that yes,
you need to do it because you want some accuracy
in your predictions and if you're interested in my opinion,
I would sat that it depends on the context.
It depends on how much you wanna keep interpretation
in your models
because if we scale this,
it will be good
because everything will be on the same scale,
we will be happy with that
and it will be good for our predictions
but we will lose the interpretation
of knowing which observations belongs
to which country, et cetera.
So, it's as you want.
It won't break your model
if you don't scale the dummy variables
because they will be actually on the same scale
as the future scaled variables here
which we'll take values between minus one and one I think,
we will see
but here since this is our final tutorial
and we won't have any interpretation to make,
we will scale those dummy variables.
So, that's how you feature scale,
now let's not forget to select this
and Command and Control + Enter to execute
and here we go.
So, now let's check our X_train and X_test.
Let's double click on X_train.
Here's X_train, as you can see,
all the variables now belong
to the same range, to the same scale.
As you can see, all the variables seems
to be between minus one and plus one,
so that's perfect, that will largely improve
your machine learning models
and besides, I forgot to mention
that even if sometimes machine learning models
are not based on Euclidean Distances,
we will still need to do feature scaling
because the algorithm will converge much faster.
That will be the case for decision trees.
Decision trees are not based on Euclidean Distances
but you will see that we will need to do feature scaling
because if we don't do it,
they will run for a very long time.
And let's have a quick look at X_test, that's X_test,
it's also feature scaled
and you have to understand that the feature scaling here
next test is the same as the feature scaling
on X_train simply because the object StandardScalar
was fitted to X_train.
That's why it's important to fit the object to X_train first
so that X_train and X_test are scaled on the same basis.
And now I promised you another question.
The other question was do we need to apply feature scaling
to y, the dependent variable vector?
So, to Y_train and to Y_test?
Here as you can see, the dependent variable vector
is a category called variable
because it's taking only two values, zero and one,
and now the question is do we need to apply feature scaling
on this one?
The answer is no this time.
We don't need to apply feature scaling to this one.
However, here we don't need to do it
because this is a classification problem
with a category called dependent variable
but you will see that for regression,
when the dependent variable will take
a huge range of values,
we will need to apply feature scaling
to the dependent variable y as well.
So, that's it for feature scaling.
Now you know how to apply feature scaling
to your data and mostly congratulations
because we did all the required steps
to pre-process our data,
feature scaling was the last one
because the next tutorial
will be about this data pre-processing template
and I will just explain how we are going to use it
in our machine models,
it's gonna be very fast and practical,
so we are done with the data pre-processing.
Congratulations, you did the most difficult part
and now it's time to have fun.
It's time to start making the models
and I can't wait to start them with you.
So, thank you for watching this tutorial.
I look forward to seeing you on the next one
and until then, enjoy machine learning.